# Data Warehouse
### Introduction
A music streaming startup, Sparkify, has grown their user base and song database and want to move their processes and data onto the cloud. Their data resides in S3, in a directory of JSON logs on user activity on the app, as well as a directory with JSON metadata on the songs in their app.

### Project Task 
The task is to build an ETL pipeline that extracts their data from S3, stages them in Redshift, and transforms data into a set of dimensional tables for their analytics team to continue finding insights in what songs their users are listening to and must be able to test your database and ETL pipeline by running queries given by the analytics team from Sparkify and compare your results with their expected results.

## Project Description
In this project we will need to load data from S3 to staging tables on Redshift and execute SQL statements that create the analytics tables from these staging tables.

## Datasets
We'll be working with two datasets that reside in S3. Here are the S3 links for each:

Song data: s3://udacity-dend/song_data
Log data: s3://udacity-dend/log_data
Log data json path: s3://udacity-dend/log_json_path.json

#### Song Dataset
The first dataset is a subset of real data from the Million Song Dataset. Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song. The files are partitioned by the first three letters of each song's track ID. For example, here are filepaths to two files in this dataset.

song_data/A/B/C/TRABCEI128F424C983.json
song_data/A/A/B/TRAABJL12903CDCF1A.json

#### Log Dataset
The second dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this event simulator based on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate app activity logs from an imaginary music streaming app based on configuration settings.

The log files in the dataset you'll be working with are partitioned by year and month. For example, here are filepaths to two files in this dataset.

log_data/2018/11/2018-11-12-events.json
log_data/2018/11/2018-11-13-events.json

## Schema for Song Play Analysis
Using the song and event datasets, you'll need to create a star schema optimized for queries on song play analysis. This includes the following tables.

### fact table - songplays
songplay_id, start_time, user_id, level, song_id, artist_id, session_id, location, user_agent

### Dimensional tables - users, songs, artists, time

users - user_id, first_name, last_name, gender, level
songs - song_id, title, artist_id, year, duration
artists - artist_id, name, location, latitude, longitude
time - start_time, hour, day, week, month, year, weekday

## Schema for staging tables - stagingevents, stagingsongs

stagingevents - event_id, artist, auth, firstName, gender, itemInSession, lastName, length, level, location, method, page, registration, sessionId, song, status, ts, userAgent, userId

stagingsongs - num_songs, artist_id, artist_latitude, artist_longitude, artist_location, artist_name, song_id, title, duration, year



## Required Steps to run the project
* Prerequisites - create your Security Group, IAM Role,redshift cluster through AWS UI
* Configuration setup - Fill the dwh.cfg with the necessary information to start a redshift cluster
* Run create_tables.py - Use this python file to drop and create tables
* Run etl.py - Run this python file to create the etl pipeline to insert data into the created tables.
* Run queries - In AWS UI run the analytic queries on your Redshift database using query editor to compare your results with the expected results.
* Delete your redshift cluster when finished.

